Add generic-worker to local dev setup (#5213)
taskcluster/taskcluster: ui/docs/tutorial/local-dev.mdx

---
title: Running Taskcluster locally
---

import TutorialNavigation from 'taskcluster-ui/views/Documentation/components/TutorialNavigation';
import Warning from 'taskcluster-ui/views/Documentation/components/Warning';

# Running Taskcluster locally

> Let's try to run whole Taskcluster locally to see what it consists of and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's try to run a complete Taskcluster environment locally to see what it consists of and
```

> how services interact with each other and.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
how services interact with each other.
```

> You would need `git` to clone [taskcluster/taskcluster](https://github.com/taskcluster/taskcluster) repository:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will need `git` to clone the [taskcluster/taskcluster](https://github.com/taskcluster/taskcluster) repository:
```

```sh
git clone https://github.com/taskcluster/taskcluster
cd taskcluster
```

You will also need recent `docker` that has [`compose`](https://docs.docker.com/compose/) tool.

> (`docker-compose` will also work here).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(`docker compose` will also work here).
```

You can have a look at [`docker-compose.yml`](https://github.com/taskcluster/taskcluster/blob/main/docker-compose.yml)
to see more details.

## Running everything

To start everything simply run `docker compose up -d`.

> This should start following services:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This should start the following services:
```

* `postgres` database to store clients, tasks, workers and much more
* `rabbitmq` message broker that allows services to communicate effectively and also lets anyone listen to [important events](/docs/manual/tasks/messages)
* `minio` to mimic S3 storage that Taskcluster needs to store [artifacts](/docs/manual/tasks/artifacts)

> * `taskcluster` which is an nginx reverse-proxy that serves all of Taskcluster services through single endpoint

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `taskcluster` which is an nginx reverse-proxy that serves all Taskcluster services through a single endpoint
```

It will need some time to intialize database and start the services, after which everything should be accessible at <http://localhost>

<Warning>
Default port for the `taskcluster` service is `80`. If your system doesn't allow you to bind service to this port,
or you need extra privileges, you can simply change this to something else.
However, some services might not work correctly with non-standard port.
</Warning>

> You might also want to add custom domain entry to your `/etc/hosts` file to be sure that UI can work properly with tasks and artifacts:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will also need to add a custom host entry to your `/etc/hosts` file in order for taskcluster authentication to work correctly:
```

```sh
echo '127.0.0.1 taskcluster' >> /etc/hosts
```

Which will allow you to open <http://taskcluster> in browser.

## Authentication

Once you have loaded Taskcluster in browser, you should be able to login with static credentials.

> Click on **Sign in** button, choose **Sign in with credentials**  on the front page and fill out the form:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Click on **Sign in** button, choose **Sign in with credentials** on the front page and fill out the form:
```

* `Client ID` we can use `static/taskcluster/root`
* `Access Token` copy and paste `j2Z6zW2QSLehailBXlosdw9e2Ti8R_Qh2M4buAEQfsMA` (hardcoded dev access token as seen in `docker-compose.yml` file)

> From now on Taskcluster will know that you are logged in and will allow you to do perform various actions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
From now on Taskcluster will know that you are logged in and will allow you to perform various actions.
```

## Workers

To run any task in Taskcluster you need a worker. If you go to the [Workers](http://taskcluster/provisioners) page, you would see two provisioners:

* `built-in` which is a simple provisioner that doesn't do anything and has two workers:
  - `succeed` will make the task resolve with success
  - `fail` will make the task fail

> * `docker-compose` will have a single worker called `generic-worker`. This is a [simple generic worker](/docs/reference/workers/generic-worker) that can run real commands.

Reviewer: I think now there are two generic-workers (one standalone, one static?)

Author: I will change the wording, because it is actually a worker type there, not a worker yet. And to not make things more complex, let's skip the details that there are two workers in fact. Not to confuse someone who would try to run his first task

> * `docker-compose` will have a single worker called `generic-worker`. This is a [simple generic worker](/docs/reference/workers/generic-worker) that can run real commands.

Author: ```suggestion
* `docker-compose` will have a single worker type called `generic-worker`. This is a [simple generic worker](/docs/reference/workers/generic-worker) that can run real commands.
```

Let's try to create a task for this generic-worker!

## Create a task

Head to the [Create Task](http://taskcluster/tasks/create) page.

Replace yaml with something like:

```yaml
taskQueueId: docker-compose/generic-worker
schedulerId: taskcluster-ui
created: '2022-07-27T13:53:21.190Z'
deadline: '2022-07-27T16:53:21.190Z'
payload:
  command:
    - - /bin/bash
      - '-c'
      - for ((i=1;i<=10;i++)); do echo $i; sleep 1; done
  maxRunTime: 30
metadata:
  name: example-task
  description: An **example** task
  owner: name@example.com
  source: http://taskcluster/tasks/create
```

> To make sure that timestamps are valid you can click on the `...` menu at the bottom and press `Update Timestamps` button.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To make sure that timestamps are valid you can click on the `...` menu at the bottom and press the `Update Timestamps` button.
```

> Now it is fine to click `Save` button at the bottom at the page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now click the `Save` button at the bottom of the page to create the task!
```

> UI should redirect you to the newly create task page, i.e. <http://taskcluster/tasks/QiGSm7nTTkOVZKLYBPKjMA>.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
UI should redirect you to the newly created task page, i.e. <http://taskcluster/tasks/QiGSm7nTTkOVZKLYBPKjMA>.
```

You should be able to see that this task is `Running` now.

> Once it will be finished, you could click on the `public/logs/live.log` artifact to see task execution log.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once it finishes, you can click on the `public/logs/live.log` artifact to see the task execution log.
```

## That's it!

Congratulations, you have just run your first task on your local Taskcluster!

> To stop everything simply do `docker compose down` to stop services and clean up resources.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To stop everything simply run `docker compose down` to stop services and clean up resources.
```
